Try, if you will, to imagine a virus
that becomes a global pandemic.
The daily news is ominous.
Fear and panic hold full sway.
Well, that’s not
too difficult to imagine, is it?
But what if they found a cure?
Well, now instantly
the newscaster’s tone would change;
he would be enthusiastic.
And why is that?
Because he has good news
to share to the world’s population.
Well, how about us?
Please find Isaiah 52:7
—Isaiah 52:7.
Why should we be enthusiastic
when we teach those
who’ve been exposed
to the evil viruses of Satan’s old world?
Well, it’s because we have the best news ever
to share with the world’s population.
Notice how this
is brought out at Isaiah 52:7.
It says: “How beautiful on the mountains
“are the feet of the one bringing good news,
“the one proclaiming peace,
“the one bringing good news
of something better,
“the one proclaiming salvation,
the one saying to Zion:
‘Your God has become King!’”
Yes, we have good news that’s better
than conquering one perturbing virus.
Now, in the videos of this symposium,
you probably noticed
that initially Neeta was enthused
and a regular Bible study
had been established with Jade.
But it’s our continued enthusiasm
that can help keep a student interested
and motivate them to act.
Now, in the following dramatization,
you will note that Neeta
learns the importance
of maintaining enthusiasm.
Neeta, your phone buzzed.
It’s Jade again.
We’ve only studied once this month.
She’s so unscheduled.
I thought you said she was doing well?
She was.
Now it’s just, “See you later.”
How was your last study?
That’s a very interesting question,
but it’s not really what we are talking
about in this paragraph, is it?
So let’s just read the scripture, shall we?
In my defense, I was annoyed.
She never even attempts
to explain why she cancels.
I understand.
Really, I do.
But if she’s still open to studying,
you can’t let these little things
drain your enthusiasm.
I know.
I just— I wish she was more structured.
It’s like she doesn’t take
anything seriously.
No study is perfect.
She’s making some effort; focus on that.
If anyone’s enthusiasm
is contagious, it’s yours.
If I haven’t mentioned it already,
I really love our chats,
and I appreciate all your questions.
Thanks.
I know sometimes they’re crazy.
No, you’re a deep thinker.
It’s good for both of us.
OK, um, yeah.
Well, cool.
Do you remember when Neeta first met Jade?
Jade said, “Like I’m jaded.”
The English word “jaded”
means “made dull, apathetic, or cynical.”
And we just noticed
that Neeta was annoyed with Jade.
She became dull, apathetic, unenthusiastic
because of Jade’s attitude.
But that affected Neeta’s enthusiasm,
and it had a circular effect,
likely contributing
to Jade’s seeming lack of interest.
Well, how do we develop enthusiasm?
You likely noticed that Neeta and Jade
speak the same language (well,  almost),
but they’re
two totally different personalities.
We could be teaching someone
of a totally different cultural background,
but the good news is
that enthusiasm crosses all boundaries.
Please find with me Romans 12:11
—Romans chapter 12.
And it’s good to remember
that enthusiasm is not just some giddy,
outward show of excitement;
it actually happens from within us.
Romans 12:11:
“Be industrious, not lazy.
“Be aglow with the spirit.
Slave for Jehovah.”
We want to highlight that matter
of being “aglow with the spirit.”
The word translated “aglow”
literally means “boiling.”
So to maintain enthusiasm,
we need a constant flow of God’s holy spirit.
That’s like the heat source
that keeps us boiling.
So how do we prepare
to teach a Bible student?
Well, we might think,
‘Well, I like to go over
the lesson in advance,
and I remind myself
of what the cited scriptures say.’
And that’s good.
That’s necessary.
But that all is just happening in our head.
How do we get the water boiling inside?
Do you remember
the suggestion at Ezra 7:10?
Ezra there said
that he ‘prepared his heart to teach.’
Well, with that thought in mind,
please find Psalm 45:1.
We need to click the download button.
We need to download
from our head to our heart.
Notice how the heart is involved here.
Psalm 45:1 says:
“My heart
“[it does not say my head;
my heart] is stirred by something good.
“I say: ‘My song is about a king.’
May my tongue be
the stylus of a skilled copyist.”
It said: “My heart is stirred.”
Well, interestingly,
the word translated “stirred”
also means “to boil or bubble up.”
And what’s the result if we get
that action going inside of us?
The end of the verse said that ‘my tongue
[in other words, my speech] will be skilled.’
Yes, we improve
our skills as a disciple-maker
when we maintain enthusiasm.
And we get our enthusiasm bubbling, boiling,
stirred up when we meditate on the importance
of the lesson we’re about to teach.
My wife likes to watch
cooking shows on television,
and I’ve noticed that invariably
there’s always an electric blender.
And I do realize
that in some of your cultures,
you might prefer mortar and pestle
or a sharp knife
to cut things up and mix them together.
But we have all those ingredients
laid out on the counter before us
—maybe vegetables, herbs,
spices, always salt and pepper.
What is that like?
That’s like having
the ingredients in our mind.
We’ve gone over the lesson in advance.
We have the Scriptures.
We know what they say,
but we really don’t get enthused
about that tasty dish until what happens?
We mix all those ingredients in the blender.
We bring it up to a temperature,
maybe even to a boil.
And then after the dish
is done and we taste it,
mm, mm, mm.
It tastes so good.
We get enthusiastic.
We tell others about this great recipe.
Now they’re interested,
and they want to taste
this culinary sensation as well.
So how do we become enthusiastic?
Meditate—meditation is the blender.
We take all the ingredients in our mind;
we mix them together into a message
that we’re now enthused to share with others.
And meditation includes
asking ourselves questions
to prepare the heart.
For example,
before your study, you might ask,
‘How has this information
benefited me personally?’
And Neeta needed to ask herself,
‘Why does Jade need to hear this?’
Maybe it’s the perfect point
at the right time for our student,
and so we should ask,
‘How will what I’m going to study
benefit my student?’
Meditation stirs the heart.
Please find with me
1 Thessalonians chapter 1.
Enthusiasm, or zeal, should not be confused
with being overly emotional.
That would be like throwing
too much hot pepper
into the blender—overemotional.
And our heartfelt conviction
should not cross the line
and become dogmatic
as to what our student must believe.
See if you get the sense
of this recipe at 1 Thessalonians 1:5.
It says: “Because the good news we preach
did not come to you with speech alone.”
In other words it’s not just words
out of the head, but notice the ingredients.
It says: “Also with power
and with holy spirit
and with strong conviction.”
When we’ve meditated on the material
and we deliver it from the heart,
it’s reflected in our gestures
and our facial expressions.
We come across as natural and sincere,
but, you see, animated
with proper enthusiasm.
If you’re enthusiastic about Bible truths,
it is contagious, but in a very good way.
Your Bible student
will not become jaded, dull, apathetic.
Instead, your student will be enthusiastic
just like you—his teacher.
And now, we have the privilege
of having Brother Seth Hyatt
(he’s a helper to the Service Committee)
to present the next part of our symposium:
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making—
Improve Your Skills—Showing Empathy.”